Now that we have our interface set up for texture painting the cloth here.
Let's go ahead and work on this see what we can do.
I've got these images up to sample colors but I think I'd also like to use this image as a stencil actually
lay that texture down on this cloth.
I'm going to scroll down here and instead of the noise brush let's add a new texture to our brush and
maybe we could call this what we call this cloth cloth brush.
And over here let's change or find an image for that.
Let's find that image.
So here's the material here's the textures of the material.
And here is the brush texture or cloth brush.
Let's go ahead and keep this as image or movie and let's come down here and click on Open.
And now I need to find my images and reference images.
And let's see which one it is.
Let's go with this cloth one and we go so now we have this image loaded up as a texture in our brush.
Now what we need to do is change this brush mapping from random to stencil.
I'll also come down here and turn the jitter down and turn the spacing down a bit as well and you can
see when I hover over the 3D view I get this preview of the texture.
You can see it here.
Now I can move this around by using the right mouse button.
So if I click the right mouse button and drag I can move it around and if I press the shift button and
the right mouse button and click and drag I can zoom in and out.
I can also rotate it with the Control key and the right mouse button as well.
So then with the normal mouse buttons I can move my character around here like so so let's try this.
Let's see if we can get the texture on this front panel here.
Let's adjust our color here.
We don't want this Baloo.
Let me come over here to this image hold the key down and let me sample and nice fairly light brownish
color here if I can find one.
Maybe I'll come up here and try this.
Something like that.
There we go.
I can get rid of this.
I don't want that.
And maybe I'll even make this a little bit brighter.
Yeah let's try this.
I'm going to hit the F key and increase the size of the brush.
I want to come down here and turn on face masking because I only want to work on this front panel so
I'll turn on face masking hit the A key to make sure everything's de-selected all hover over this and
press the L key.
And now if we click and drag on here let's see what happens.
You can barely see I mean you zoom in here that that texture is being laid down on that and I think
I want it to be a little bit more than that little bit better.
Let's try and bring our brush color down a bit and maybe I'll increase the strength of hair.
Let's try again.
See how this works.
It's a little bit better.
Yeah.
We're getting a little bit more of that texture on there.
But still not enough to undo.
I think I want that color to be a little bit lighter.
Let me try this.
Something like this I'm actually going to increase the strength a little bit more and let's try this.
Now we're getting some of that color down.
That's looking a little better.
Kind of like that.
Let me turn off the stencil real quick.
I'll change that back to the plane and let's take a look at it.
Yeah kind of like that.
Now we also need to do that for the edges around here as well.
Let's go back to that face select and let me see if I can get some of that down on the corners there
on the edges.
So I'll go back to stencil and see if we can do here.
Let me take that brush down just a hair and paint right in there.
And we go let me grab this down here like that.
And over here on this edge
OK so we've got that front panel down.
That's not too bad.
Once again.
Yeah.
All right.
So let's now work on one of the side panels here.
Zoom in to about the same size as we were before because we want the texture to be pretty much the same
scale all the way around and hit the A key to de-select that area of the L key to select this panel.
And let's see what we can do here.
I'm going to increase the breast size and I'll just lay this down here.
OK.
Let's spin around to this side
a key press the L key and let's lay it down here.
And lastly let's get this signed selected with the L key.
Increase the brush size of BET let's lay this down.
All right.
Let me turn back to view plain de-select everything.
Turn off face masking.
Zoom out a bit and see what we got here.
Yeah that's not too bad.
It kind of gives the sense that there's a texture to it.
I think also I need to work a little bit on emphasizing the light and shadow of the folds here.
Kind of like this but that's a good base texture I think to work with.
All right.
So I think to paint the light and shadow we don't really need this stencil here anymore.
I'll hit the x key to remove that.
I'd like to come down here and it looks like spacing and jitter is good.
Those are pretty low.
That's good.
For painting the folds I think I'm going to need to turn on the pressure sensitivity for the radius
of the brush so that I can draw a thin line on top and have it get thicker as it goes to the bottom
to kind of replicate a fold in the cloth.
So I'll turn the pressure sensitivity on here and let's sample another color here I'll press ass and
sample a little bit darker color here.
And I think I'm going to be drawing this down on this part right here.
All right.
Let's try this
yeah.
Something like that now.
I don't know if you can see it but I'm just barely getting it.
And that's what I want.
I don't want anything real strong here.
So this is very light and very subtle.
I hope that's what I'm trying to do and I'm trying to be small up top.
And then as I come down I'm pushing more to get the brush a little bit wider.
Now one thing I notice look down here.
That's bad.
I'm pushing the brush stroke on down into the legs.
Let me do this.
Glad I caught that early so I'm going to go ahead and turn on face masking again and just select this
panel so I don't accidentally paint on other parts of the models.
Right.
So I'll try it again.
Well hopefully you can begin to see that shadow there happening in the folds.
It's very subtle.
I'm just trying not to do too much.
It's easy to do too much on something like this.
So now that I've got those in there I want to go back to a lighter color maybe something like this and
start doing the same thing on the top of the fold here to get that highlight.
So let's try that
yeah.
So you can see I think hopefully that will help the shadows pop out a little bit as well.
All right so there we go.
We've got a nice cloth texture that we've put down with the stencil brush and we've also done a little
bit of hand painting to kind of make those folds pop.
Now in addition to the normal map and the ambient occlusion map that will add in the game engine.
I think this will really help give some realism and some interest to the cloth here.
So I'll begin working on the rest of the tunic here.
Just going through and doing the same kind of thing now I feel I would be remiss if I didn't mention
yet again that we need to save this image.
If I exited out of Blender now even if I saved my scene if I came in here and press control or command
s and save the scene and then I exited all this would go away.
So I just want to emphasize once again to be sure and save your images.
So for me I'll come back over to the slots tab and click on Save all images and that makes the Asterix
go away.
It only takes a couple of times of losing your payment information for you to begin to remember to do
that.